DOCSP-45191: GridFS (#118)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/write/gridfs.txt

bucket contains the following collections, named using the convention
defined in the GridFS specification:

- The ``chunks`` collection stores the binary file chunks.
- The ``files`` collection stores the file metadata.

When you create a new GridFS bucket, the driver creates the ``fs.chunks`` and ``fs.files``
collections, unless you specify a different name in the ``Grid::FSBucket.new`` method options. The
driver also creates an index on each collection to ensure efficient retrieval of the files and related
metadata. The driver creates the GridFS bucket, if it doesn't exist, only when the first write
operation is performed. The driver creates indexes only if they don't exist and when the
bucket is empty. For more information about
GridFS indexes, see :manual:`GridFS Indexes </core/gridfs/#gridfs-indexes>`
in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

When storing files with GridFS, the driver splits the files into smaller
chunks, each represented by a separate document in the ``chunks`` collection.
It also creates a document in the ``files`` collection that contains
a file ID, file name, and other file metadata. You can upload the file from

> memory or from a stream. See the following diagram to see how GridFS splits
> the files when uploaded to a bucket.

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
memory or from a stream. The following diagram shows how GridFS splits files when
they're uploaded to a bucket.
```

.. figure:: /includes/figures/GridFS-upload.png
   :alt: A diagram that shows how GridFS uploads a file to a bucket

When retrieving files, GridFS fetches the metadata from the ``files``
collection in the specified bucket and uses the information to reconstruct
the file from documents in the ``chunks`` collection. You can read the file
into memory or output it to a stream.

Create a GridFS Bucket
----------------------

To store or retrieve files from GridFS, create a GridFS bucket by calling the
``FSBucket.new`` method and passing in a ``Mongo::Database`` instance.
You can use the ``FSBucket`` instance to

> call read and write operations on the files in your bucket.

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
perform read and write operations on the files in your bucket.
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/gridfs.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-create-bucket
   :end-before: end-create-bucket

> To create or reference a bucket with a custom name other than the default name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create or reference a bucket with a name other than the default name
```

> ``fs``, pass the bucket name as the an optional parameter to the ``FSBucket.new``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``fs``, pass the bucket name as an optional parameter to the ``FSBucket.new``
```

constructor, as shown in the following example:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/gridfs.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-create-custom-bucket
   :end-before: end-create-custom-bucket

Upload Files
------------

The ``upload_from_stream`` method reads the contents of an
upload stream and saves it to the ``GridFSBucket`` instance.

You can pass a ``Hash`` as an optional parameter to configure the chunk size or include
additional metadata.

> The following example uploads a file into ``FSBucket``:

Reviewer: does it also use the `Hash` parameter? probably good to demo that.

Author: Added in revision

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/gridfs.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-upload-files
   :end-before: end-upload-files

Retrieve File Information
-------------------------

In this section, you can learn how to retrieve file metadata stored in the
``files`` collection of the GridFS bucket. The metadata contains information
about the file it refers to, including:

- The ``_id`` of the file
- The name of the file

> - The length/size of the file

Reviewer: [slash](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/punctuation/#slashes)

```suggestion
- The size of the file
```

- The upload date and time
- A ``metadata`` document in which you can store any other information

To learn more about fields you can retrieve from the ``files`` collection, see the
:manual:`GridFS Files Collection </core/gridfs/#the-files-collection>` documentation in the
{+mdb-server+} manual.

To retrieve files from a GridFS bucket, call the ``find`` method on the ``FSBucket``
instance. The following code example retrieves and prints file metadata from all files in
a GridFS bucket:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/gridfs.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-retrieve-file-info
   :end-before: end-retrieve-file-info

To learn more about querying MongoDB, see :ref:`<ruby-retrieve>`.

Download Files
--------------

The ``download_to_stream`` method downloads the contents of a file.

To download a file by its file ``_id``, pass the ``_id`` to the method. The ``download_to_stream``

> method will write the contents of the file to the provided object.

Reviewer: [future tense](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/writing/use-present-tense/)

```suggestion
method writes the contents of the file to the provided object.
```

The following example downloads a file by its file ``_id``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/gridfs.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-download-files-id
   :end-before: end-download-files-id

> If you don't know the ``_id`` of the file but know the filename, then you

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
If you know a file's name but not its ``_id``, you
```

can use the ``download_to_stream_by_name`` method. The following example
downloads a file named ``mongodb-tutorial``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/gridfs.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-download-files-name
   :end-before: end-download-files-name

.. note::

   If there are multiple documents with the same ``filename`` value,

>    GridFS will fetch the most recent file with the given name (as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   GridFS fetches the most recent file with the given name (as
```

   determined by the ``uploadDate`` field).

Delete Files
------------

Use the ``delete`` method to remove a file's collection document and associated
chunks from your bucket. You must specify the file by its ``_id`` field rather than its
file name.

The following example deletes a file by its ``_id``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/gridfs.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-delete-files
   :end-before: end-delete-files

.. note::

   The ``delete`` method supports deleting only one file at a time. To
   delete multiple files, retrieve the files from the bucket, extract
   the ``_id`` field from the files you want to delete, and pass each value
   in separate calls to the ``delete`` method.

API Documentation
-----------------

To learn more about using GridFS to store and retrieve large files,
see the following API documentation:

> - `Mongo::Grid::FSBucket <{+api-root+}/Mongo/Grid/FSBucket.html>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Mongo::Grid::FSBucket <{+api-root+}/Mongo/Grid/FSBucket.html>`__
```
